SURMA: I have been dabbling
a little bit with WebRTC.
JAKE: Oh.
SURMA: Exactly.
I mean, we can stop
the topic right there.
We pretty much already
spoiled the conclusion.
[JAKE MAKES CRICKET NOISES]
SURMA: Not even that.
JAKE: That's all I
know about WebRTC.
SURMA: That is the first thing--
JAKE: That's what I hear.
SURMA: --that already annoys me.
So, WebRTC has been around
for a good amount of time.
I want to say at
least four years.
Because I know that Sam Dutton's
article on "HTML5 Rocks"
is from 2013.
So, it's been
around for a while.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: It allows you
to basically create
a connection to
another browser that
can be even on a
different machine,
even on a different
network, theoretically.
JAKE: So, video calling--
SURMA: No, exact--
[GRUNTS IN FRUSTRATION]
Yes, but no.
JAKE: OK.
No.
No!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: So I'm going to
explain first, and then
give you the mnemonic.
JAKE: OK, OK.
SURMA: So, by default,
WebRTC connections
are established by you figuring
out your own IP addresses.
So you figure, I'm
available over localhost.
Then you get your
local IP network, IPs.
And that's pretty much it.
That's what you send
over to the other client,
and they try to connect.
JAKE: But you send
to the other client,
I'm available on localhost.
SURMA: Yeah, if you're on
the same machine, that works.
JAKE: OK, I see.
SURMA: Right?
They-- all the
possible addresses
that you know you could
be available under,
you somehow pass to
the other client,
and then they try to connect.
JAKE: Oh, so you find them
all, and it just tries them.
SURMA: You can.
Yes.
You get a series of
events for ICE candidates.
And ICE is this protocol
on how to establish--
JAKE: Oh my god,
this is full of--
SURMA: Yes, exactly.
JAKE: An ICE--
SURMA: Let's not--let's not--
JAKE: An ICE candidate.
SURMA: But that only
works if these peers
are on the same machine.
So localhost works.
Or on the same network without
client separation, which
most public hot spots have.
JAKE: Right.
SURMA: So, if you're
at home and you
have your phone and your laptop,
this will most likely already
work without a STUN
or a TURN server.
JAKE: OK.
Because they both know their IP
address is in the same network,
they can talk to each other.
SURMA: And then you establish
the connection with--
JAKE: But nothing
leaves the house.
SURMA: Yeah-- with the
WebRTC shenanigans,
which is another completely
different and super-awful
topic.
But, if you are not
on the same network.
JAKE: Right.
SURMA: For example
you're roaming--
or no, not if you're
roaming, you're
out with your phone, which
has a proper public IP.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: So no
firewalling, but just
a public IP, the
phone doesn't know
it's public IP necessarily.
So that's when a STUN
server comes into play.
The sole purpose of a STUN
server is to receive a request,
figure out which IP
this request came from,
and give back a signal in a
WebRTC-compatible way that
says, this is your public IP.
So you can add that to
your ICE candidates,
because that's
another IP that you're
potentially reachable under.
If, however, you're behind
your router at home,
or you have a firewall where
incoming connections are
blocked or you actually have
to do some NATing to get back
to your actual connection.
JAKE: Some NATing,
we'll gloss over that.
SURMA: That's where
the TURN server
comes into play, which is
a server in the interwebs
that both sites
connect to and tunnel
their traffic through it.
And the way to
remember it, to me,
is like TURN has the R,
which stands for relay.
[LAUGHTER]
JAKE: That's a difficult
second album, mate.
[LAUGHTER]
SURMA: It's how I
remember it, honestly.
JAKE: No, your Flexbox
ones were a bit better.
SURMA: It was better, but
that's the mnemonic I have.
Yes.
That is the relay server.
That relays your traffic instead
of to the public interweb,
so both can connect
even if both ends are
behind different firewalls
in different networks.
In my experiments,
I haven't even
bothered with setting up
STUN or TURN, because I
was like, I'm just going to--
because what I was doing, I
was once again playing around
with Comlink, and I wanted
to expose the entirety of one
browser to another browser.
So basically, I've exposed the
entire window object of Safari
to Chrome, and I can change
the title of the Safari window
from Chrome by calling
document.title = blah,
blah, blah.
JAKE: And it just works.
SURMA: But it is
actually a remote object
from the other browser with
a WebRTC tunnel in between,
which is super cool.
JAKE: Yeah, that is really cool.
SURMA: But getting there was
a super painful experience,
because you can totally
tell that WebRTC was written
by people who are in
telecommunications and not
in web development.
JAKE: I do find that
the web standards, even
the standards text
and the APIs, it does
look like it was imported
from another planet, right.
Like a completely
different way of thinking.
SURMA: It starts out with
that it's already completely
asymmetric to start with.
So you start with
creating an offer.
JAKE: OK.
SURMA: That contains
what you are.
And once you say this RTC
connection, the local end,
should fit this offer,
whatever that means,
you get ICE candidates
which describe yourself.
Sure.
JAKE: Help.
SURMA: (singing the
Beatles) I need somebody.
It's super-confusing.
So you create an
RTC connection--
RTC peer connection,
even though you
don't have a connection yet.
But that's the
first thing you do.
JAKE: Right, you create a
connection you don't have.
SURMA: Then you create--
JAKE: To an ICE candidate.
SURMA: --the data channels
you want to create,
because you need to know
what kind of connection
you want to have in the end.
So even though the connection
hasn't been established,
you're already
thinking about channels
in creating the objects.
JAKE: Right, OK.
SURMA: Then you create
this offer which describes,
I guess, what your
capabilities are.
Like, I can do these codecs,
I can accept data channels,
I am the passive listener
waiting for connections,
these kind of
things are in there.
JAKE: Something that can be like
a lowest common denominator can
be created.
SURMA: I guess.
And then you say to
the connection, set
local description, where you
say, I am on the local end,
and we're going to get to
the other bit in a minute.
So you set your
local connection,
and you get a list
of your candidates.
So now you have the
offer and your candidates
and now it is your
responsibility
as a developer to get these two
things, the list of candidates
and the offer, to
the other side,
to the other peer that
wants to connect to you.
JAKE: Right.
SURMA: So peer discovery
isn't even covered by WebRTC.
You already need to
know and have a way
to communicate
with the other end
to set up a WebRTC connection.
JAKE: Oh, so that's separate
from a STUN or a TURN server,
that part that can
actually sort of broker
the deal between two--
SURMA: You already need
to know where to talk
to to set up the connection.
So that's why, always, you
have this signaling back end
where you basically
say, here's my offer,
here's my ICE candidates.
And then the other end, the
other computer basically,
gets those and sets what it--
the offer as its
remote description.
Because from their
perspective, that
is the other end
of the connection.
JAKE: Right.
Oh, so you're talking
to the-- like the--
SURMA: The second computer
that wants to talk-- you want--
so you have one computer,
and a second computer,
they want to have a
WebRTC connection.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: Then somehow,
out of band,
you transfer the offer
and the ICE candidates
to the other computer.
And that one uses as
its remote description,
because that is describing the
other end of the connection.
But then this side
has to also generate
an answer and another
list of peer candidates,
and it has to go
back out of band.
Then this side says,
the original side says,
this is my remote connection.
And then you can communicate.
And it is, it sounds confusing
because it is confusing.
JAKE: But you know
IndexedDB sounds great now.
SURMA: I know, right?
JAKE: It's fine.
It's perfect.
SURMA: It is mind blowing.
And that is-- explain
to me-- anyway,
nobody is really using it,
because it is really difficult.
And B, the first
thing people did
is write abstraction
libraries on top of it.
JAKE: But being able,
like the end result
that you got to, with
the data channel of being
able to sort of have like,
one browser talking to another
as if it is just in a workgroup,
that's pretty incredible.
SURMA: I see potential in
combining WebRTC and Comlink.
But there is work to be done.
JAKE: They also played
"C'est la Vie" by Bewitched,
and just asked, for
one extra bonus point,
who knows what this song is?
I know what that song is.
So do you know
what that song is?
Homework for you.
It's the best song ever.
It's an Irish girl band.
It's amazing.